So here, I've written down an example--W is a subset of R^4 defined by this equation, 2x+3y=4z-5w
So we have two things to check: the first thing we want to ask is is W closed under addition.
And in a moment, we'll check if it's closed under scalar multiplication. So what does it mean to be closed under addition?
Well, we want to take two things in W. Maybe I'll call them x1,y1,z1,w1
And the second one can be x2,y2,z2,w2.
So let those be elements of W. So what it means to be closedunder addition is that when we add them together
we stay in W. We start with two things in W, add them together and we'll see if we stay in W.
If that happens, no matter what these two vectors are, then we say W is closed under addition.
All right. So how do we check this? Well, the way we check things are in W is we see if they satisfy this equation up here.
So we go ahead and add these two vectors together.
And this is kind of boring, we just get x1+x2, y1+y2, z1+z2, w1+w2
So now you want to know if we take two times the X component plus three times the Y component.
Do we get four times the Z component, minus five times the W component?
Let me write that down--two times the X component is 2(x1+x2)plus three times the Y component (y1+y2)
is equal to four times the Z component.
minus five times the w. Now, these aren't just any two vectors in R^4, these vectors came from W.
So that tells us something about x1,y1,z1,w1, and x2,y2,z2,w2
in particular, because this first vector is in W we know these components also satisfy this equation.
So since these are in W we have 2x1+3y1 one better be equal 4z1-5w1
And similarly, because our second vector here is an element of W that exactly means that 2x2+3y2 is equal to 4z2-5w2
And this is all the information we need to answer this question over here.
In particular, we do a little bit of arithmetic. You notice we have 2x1 plus 2x2
And if we distribute this 3y1+3y2. And on the right side 4z1+4z2
minus 5w1 minus 5 w2. Now, we look at the terms here.
I see a 2x1 and a 3y1
So go ahead and write that together. 2x1+3y1
If I look on the right hand side, I also see a 4z1 minus 5w1 -- we've got 4z1-5w1
Similarly I can group all the ones with with twos as subscripts together.
So I got a 2x2, and 3y2. All right, that is 2x2+3y2
And then finally, for the last two terms, we have plus 4z2-5w2.
Now, the key thing to note is that the terms in red are exactly our first equation over here.
And the terms in green are exactly our second equation over there.
So because the red parts are equal and the green parts are equal, when I add them together.
This is actually a true statement.
So we have shown that, yes. Two times the X component plus three times the Y component equals four times the Z component, minus five times the W component.
Therefore, the sum of these two vectors is still in W.
So therefore, W is closed under addition. All right.
We're halfway done. We need to check if W is closed under scalar multiplication.
Now. So this works similarly.
We're gonna take a vector in W and a scalar c and we're going to multiply them together and see if the result stays in W.
So let's let. We can use the same vector here, x1, y1, z1, w1.
and we'll pick a scalar--I usually use c, but you can use whatever letter you like--from R.
And the question is when I multiply this. If we stay in W.
And note that to multiply, we just simply multiply, cx1, cy1, cz1, cw1
So to check if this is in W we check ifthis vector down here satisfies that equation.
So it's two times the first component. Plus three times the second component equal to four times the third component.
Minus five times the last component. Now, what do we have to work with?
We know this vector x1, z1, y1, w1 came from W.
That tells us that 2x1+3y1=4z1-5w1
So we know that's true. Now, if we come over here, we can do arithmetic as before and expand this out.
We have 2cx1+3cy1
And we want to know, is this equal to--oops, sorry, these should be cz1 and cw1 back up here-- 4cz1-5cw1.
Now, I can factor a c out here on the left hand side and then I have c (2x1+3y1)
And we're still wanting to know if this is equal to 4cz1-5cw1.
But I know 2x1+3y1 has to be equal to 4z1-5w1 since this vector came from W.
So this is equal to c times 4z1-5w1
And we're still asking is this equal to 4cz1-5cw1
Now we can see that yes, these two things actually are equal.
So the answer to our question is yes, which tells us the answer to our question is c times thisvector in W.
Yes. Which was a rephrasing of our question is W closed under scalar multiplication.
So W is closed, under addition is closed and scalar multiplication.
Therefore, this thing is a subspace of R^4.